and welcome back to a fresh episode of
business growth show i'm your host sam
dunning co-owner over at webchoiceuk.com
and today i'm joined by mark evans
mark's the principal over at marketing
spark he helps b2b software as a service
companies engage and attract better
prospects and drive higher sales mark
welcome to the show sir thank you thanks
for the invite yeah things are great
can't complain
good man looking forward to this dude so
we're gonna be talking all about how you
can craft content not just for anyone
but the people that actually matter so
idle prospects are ideal customers and
clients let's jump straight into it sir
let's put you on the hot spot put you on
the hot seat
why should a business owner why should a
marketing exec why should they consider
content marketing as a strategy to to
fuel sales and grow their business
well the reality is is that
most businesses
or most companies don't buy in a snap
they don't buy right away they don't see
your product and say i gotta have this
thing it's so good even if it is so good
they're not gonna buy immediately so
what you need to do is you need to
nurture you need to engage you need to
educate sometimes you even need to
entertain
yeah so content is a great medium to
make that happen because what you're
doing is you're positioning your
prospect
to see you as the obvious choice you're
positioning yourself as the guide as
someone who's they can feel confident
that if they select your product it's
the right decision and content is a
great way to make that happen
okay
yeah nurture educate entertain that
makes sense i mean how do you feel that
content marketing kind of stacks up
compared to
let's say
more traditional channels to get faster
results that companies might think can
look to like let's say google ads or
social ads or kind of paid
performance marketing or those kind of
channels i guess are a bit of a quicker
hit
um because a lot of people and i know i
did in the early days kind of heard
content marketing and thought that just
means i've got to put out ten tons of
articles tons of podcasts tons of blogs
and then maybe in a couple years i might
get a lead
yeah it's an interesting question
because you can approach it from
different angles now
i think the biggest thing to remember is
that we're talking about a marketing mix
so any marketing is not singular so
you're not just doing content marketing
or paid
or
video or email marketing like you're
doing a mix of it and the other side of
the coin
is that you're creating marketing that's
going to resonate with your target
audiences and you have to know
what kind of what kind of marketing
they're going to consume i use the
analogy you got to dance where the
party's happening
because if you think that linkedin and
we all love linkedin is the place to do
your marketing and to brill brand
awareness yep and your target audiences
aren't on linkedin then you're wasting
your time like it it feels good you're
part of a really hot platform but if
it's not a place where your prospects
are hanging out and they're learning
then it's a fail like it's just a waste
of time and effort
so
the
the way to look at content marketing is
to say okay
is it part of the overall mix is it a
way that we can connect with our
targeted audiences and can we can it be
part of something that also includes
search engine optimization and paid and
direct mail
and email marketing and if it does then
yes embrace content marketing but
realize it's just part of
the number of levers that you're going
to pull and push as you move forward
yeah
that that makes sense as part of an
overall kind of multi multi-channel
approach i guess um
and is it something can content
marketing give you a quick fix or is it
something you have to go into mark with
a long-term mindset would you say
yeah that's an interesting question and
i would say that it's not
people it's not for people that are
looking for instant gratification
because content takes time people need
to read your content trust your content
it just needs to become sort of the
trusted resource so for example
if you look at what hubspot has done
over the last 10 years they have created
a massive library of content
and over the years they have become sort
of the trusted guide if you're looking
for advice in any kind of marketing
particularly inbound
you go to hubspot because you know
that that's where you're going to get
great advice and that's the value of
content it really differentiates
yourself in the marketplace because you
become the valuable resource the go-to
resource but i agree with you it is sort
of a long-term proposition and if you're
looking for instant gratification you
may get it from paid
but
that's a competitiveness space too right
so you have to balance everything
like it um and we'll get into kind of
how we can gear our content for idle
customers and the channels we should
focus on in a bit
but you've you've raised an interesting
point there with hubspot because like
you say they're market leaders when it
comes to crm and the amount of content
they put out is insane
so for smaller businesses just looking
at a company like that might be quite
daunting as a challenge so we'll get
into kind of how we can attack it but
should we be looking at content
marketing as more than just a play to
generate sales leads should we be
looking at as a play to kind of build
brand to perhaps generate referrals
become kind of the industry leader in
our niche as well is is there more to it
than just generating let's say sales
pipeline
absolutely i mean
i think that content is something that
percolates and resonates in the
marketplace
these days you're hearing a lot about
the dark web chris walker for example a
very well-known marketer on linkedin
talks about the dark web a lot and what
the dark web is is there's a lot of
things happening conversations between
prospects referrals that are going on
people sharing content you know ex you
know distributing it internally but
those are the things that as marketers
they're not attributable we can't see it
we don't know what's happening but we do
know that it's going on because in many
cases
before people make purchase decisions
they're very well educated and they may
have not
contacted you or
or
directly connected with you at all
so
that's where content
can play a huge role because there's a
lot happening before they even touch you
um so the idea is create content get it
out there and position yourself as the
the option out there or one of the one
of the key options that's the key
it's it's difficult to sell into
businesses right because um
i know a lot of ceos they only want to
no i'm not saying i'm not
painting everyone with the same brush
but i love my marketing activity
especially if they're spending dollars
or pounds to um
to revenue right and when you try and
say that as part of a brand building
exercise not everything is attributable
because things might as in let's say
your content has a link somewhere
whether it's in the comments and the
email and the video whatever um
doesn't mean because a prospect's
clicked that link they're going to
request a demo or buy right now right
they might see that they might see more
of your content over time and then
because they've kind of uh event their
trust then they might go directly to
your website and speak to a sales rep
that looks technically is a direct
inquiry but it's not because you don't
know the path they've come to to
eventually get in touch so the point is
i had this a while ago because there was
someone on linkedin that had been
following the bits and pieces i post
about websites and seo and generating
inquiries with your site they'd actually
referred me this person i'd never heard
of they'd referred me to another company
and basically said you need to go with
sam for your seo in this instance and
that's that almost amazed me because i'd
never actually had a conversation with
this chap and he was so entrusting in
what i was saying that he felt that he'd
introduced me to this client we did a
five figure deal um i never had to do
anything because it was all done for me
right insane but
how do you go about kind of when you're
speaking to c-suite execs and trying to
get buy-in and they ask difficult
questions like how can i tie everything
to revenue and things like that what's
what's kind of your answer mark
well part of the problem right now is
the marketing world is divided in half
on one side you've got paid and you've
got you know the instant gratification
part of it on the other side you've got
brand the pendulum for many years has
been on data and paid and seo
but it's starting to swing back because
brand matters brand is about
establishing differentiation and the
competitive edge and having people see
you as the product so in your case your
great content the way that you
demonstrated thought leadership and
direction convinced somebody that they
should trust you that you knew what you
were doing
and so in many respects
you have to
get the ceo or the entrepreneur to bind
to the idea that content matters in many
respects it's a leap of faith because
they don't understand content they don't
recognize that it is you know a
long-term proposition but if they do
understand the power of brand and they
do recognize that it's the way that you
can flank the competition
then that's when they can recognize that
this is something we should do and it is
hard because a lot of entrepreneurs
aren't writers they don't do content
they don't understand content um but as
a marketer you got to convince them that
these are the benefits and this is how
it fits into the overall marketing mix
and how it sort of undermine under
underscores everything that you do
cool makes sense so let's get actionable
here um
but before we do
why is it important that rather than
just creating content um whether it's
video whether it's podcast media blogs
linkedin post whatever the heck it is
why does it have to be honed in
specifically on to ideal prospects why
can't we try and appeal to everyone and
get as many clients in in the roster as
possible
well that would be great if you could be
if you could do everything for everybody
but it doesn't work that way in many
cases you know marketing budgets are
pretty constrained you have to focus on
the people that matter
in the last thing you want to do is have
a shotgun approach to marketing instead
you have to be laser focused and and
targeted so
the the most successful most effective
content marketing is designed for a
specific audience who have specific
needs interest problems aspirations and
one of the things that
we see a lot on linkedin is marketers
waving the flag about knowing your
customers and this is marketing 101 i'm
always puzzled by why marketers want to
talk about this but it does reflect the
fact that maybe
we don't talk to our customers and
prospects enough so we don't understand
what they need to know
what their problems and what their
aspirations are so one of the keys to
content marketing success is go talk to
your customers
um go talk to the people in customer
service what are the questions that
prospects and customers are asking and
then you write content
that answers all those key questions and
that's a great way to position yourself
as someone who understands them and you
want to be seen as empathetic like i'm i
understand and i recognize your problems
and i'm going to help you and my product
is going to help make that happen yeah
so that's step one to creating
you know effective content
okay
so yeah this ties us nicely into kind of
actually creating crafting this content
that's going to appeal to our idle
buyers so the people that you actually
want to get in touch with us and get
some business get some deals over the
line with so talking to customers
um
tell us a bit more mark about kind of
what that looks like i mean appreciate
if if we're a bigger size organization
perhaps we need to talk to like you say
our customer service team our sales reps
if we're a smaller business it might be
ourselves out on the front line selling
each day um
what are we doing there what kind of
what kind of process should we follow in
the sense that
taking what they say and then put it in
into some kind of content mix so what do
you advise how do we go from one to the
other to the other
well
number one is you talk to your customers
you listen to them you're
anytime you can interact with customers
you're trying to get insight into what
they're focused on what they're worried
about what their aspirations are and you
know the old time
um
a lot of companies just have suggestion
boxes where you write a piece of paper
and you put it in the suggestion box and
that's how they would improve operations
well you're trying to do the same thing
when it comes to content you've got a
digital suggestion box so anytime a
sales person or a customer sale customer
success rep or the ceo
recognizes a good content idea you put
in the suggestion box and what you want
to build is a repository of great
content ideas so let's say
over a period of time you can you have
50 ideas
now you may not need to create 50 pieces
of content but what you can do is you
can review all those ideas and pick the
five best the 10 best the 15 best
and that's just one simple way
of coming up with content ideas that you
think are going to resonate the other
technique
is a guy called the marcus sheridan
technique because he's a very well known
content marketer is you get everybody in
the room
like your secretary and your shipping
person and your customer success person
customer service and you just
ask people what are the questions that
prospects and customers are asking and
they can't leave for an hour so maybe
you want to provide coffee or lunch so
they can make that happen but you will
be surprised by how many questions that
people will come up with and from there
there's a wealth of content that you can
raise simply by answering questions
nice and i guess it will save you time
as well in the long run because if
you've got a piece of content that
answers a common question from prospects
um from existing customers as well
rather than having to spend hours each
week each month
explaining it you can just direct them
to this piece of media or put it on your
website i'll put on your social media
etc
yeah i think they're they're two
different types of content there's
prescriptive where you're answering
questions you're providing prospects and
customers with guides on how they can
do better
leverage your product solve their
problems become successful so that's one
side of the house which is important and
the other side is thought leadership
where you're demonstrating how you know
you're you're how smart you are the what
what you think um where you think your
industry is going
um best practices so you're positioning
yourself as a trusted resource and i use
that time and time again because
sales comes down to
in many cases comes down to two things
one do they know you and do they trust
you
and then if your product is solid
then you put that together and that's a
great formula for for sale success
got it okay so yeah we've we've got a
bunch of ideas now so we've we've spoken
to ourselves you've been speaking to our
customers what
i mean if if someone's just starting out
on this mark or if they're fairly new to
the content marketing model
what do they do do they just try and
create a bunch of videos bunch of blogs
bunch of articles a bunch of linkedin
posts should they go what at all guns
blazing start a podcast or is there kind
of steps that you recommend that
businesses typically follow so they
don't get overwhelmed and try and do
everything at once
so once you've got all those ideas i the
next step is to create what i call
content pillars
so there are two or three or four
themes that you're going to be writing
about or folks focused on all the time
so for your business
you do website optimization website
design seo
those are the themes that you're going
to talk about you know time and time
again so you you become known as an
expert and that does
um
that while you develop demonstrate
expertise it also keeps you focused so
that you're not scattered all over the
place it's kind of like going to a diner
where you've got
six options and it makes it really easy
to figure out what you want to eat as
opposed to going to a restaurant worthy
where the menu is dozens and dozens of
dozens right because a lot of when it
comes down to content marketing you you
it becomes easier when you're writing
about the same things all the time
and then your audience knows what they
can expect from you so that's the next
step and then the third step is figuring
okay so we've got our content ideas
we've got
the pillars that we want to focus on and
now we have to focus on the channels
to deliver and that goes back to knowing
your customers and
understanding do they read blog posts
um are they enthusiastic about podcasts
is video the best way to get to them or
maybe we should be um publishing our
content in trade magazines or on on
industry websites because once you've
got that then you know what you're going
to write about the themes you're going
to use and how you're going to deliver
it
yeah some good points so
just jumping back a step to step two
content pillars love that like like you
say um i'm very very selfish when it
comes to my content in the case in the
sense that i'll only publish on on
linkedin on youtube on this podcast i'll
interview business leaders like yourself
but my own stuff i'm only going to do
websites and seo because that's what i
want to sell right um i don't want to
talk about other stuff because it's
wasting my time
in a selfish but business focused view
so
should other companies take the same
standpoint of look these are the core
services we actually want to generate
sales ops for let's just focus on these
absolutely i think that
if you're selling let's say sales
automation software you should be
focusing on two or three or four
sales focused themes and doesn't always
doesn't have to necessarily be about
your product but it be it can be focused
on the problems that your product solves
or the things that
the benefits people will get from using
your product so for example if it if
your product makes meetings more
efficient
talk about
how to make meetings happen how to write
ask the right questions you know how to
best practices for arranging and doing
meetings all around the same pillar the
other thing i'll say when it comes to
content when you're just starting out is
i always adopt the philosophy that less
is more
okay
the idea that you know there's a
tendency when you're creating content
that you want to be everywhere i want to
be on youtube and a podcast on linkedin
and a blog
an email
and you end up spreading yourself way
too thin and this is dangerous
if you're a small business because
you've got only got so many resources so
it's better to figure okay why don't we
start with a couple channels
so why don't we leverage our blog and
then we can repurpose our content for
linkedin
and that way we've got a nice efficient
manageable content marketing strategy
and if we're seeing success then double
down just do a much better job but if
you if you're feeling a little bit cocky
and confident
then add an email newsletter right so
the idea is is you don't have to do
everything all at once you can you can
be pragmatic you can be strategic and
you can give yourself the luxury of of
learning as you go
yeah i love that i love that um kind of
start step by step it's easy to get
overwhelmed i did that when i started
the podcast i tried to do kind of three
or so interviews a week and it just took
up too much time preparing for the
episodes putting them together trying to
produce them and then um trying to do
work in between trying to generate sales
for web choice it was just overwhelming
i cut back tends to do kind of one and
solo episode one guest interview and it
just
makes life a lot easier so that that
resonates um
also like the fact that you say if you
put together
what i tend to do is quite often if you
put together kind of a long piece a long
form piece of content be it a podcast
um a blog whatever
once you've got that on a specialist
topic that's a heck of content then you
can chop it up right
absolutely like i'm a huge advocate for
podcasting
you know for a couple years i looked at
podcasts and i thought they're too much
work and i don't want to be bothered and
then last year i launched my podcast and
it is by far
the smartest and best marketing move
that i've ever made
because podcasts when you think about it
are trojan horses so what you can do
with a podcast is you you have an excuse
to reach out to pretty much anyone
thought leaders
industry leaders prospects customers and
you can say to them i'd love to have you
as a guest in my podcast and
and you know
very rarely people will say no so once
you get them on your podcast then you're
building a relationship and you're
getting insight into what people are
thinking it's a great way to generate
some really great content and from a
podcast you can turn it into a blog post
linkedin posts videos so if you're on
the on the fence when it comes to a
podcast my advice is get off the fence
the barriers to entry extremely low like
it's super simple you don't even have to
spend a lot of money right you need a
microphone and that's and basically i'm
a podcast host and you're off to the
races um so if if there's a takeaway
from our conversation for
anybody on this uh on this podcast it's
start looking at a podcast because it's
it's it's gold like it's and at one
point in time like you know that a lot
of companies have blogs right now in
time in five or ten years from now every
single company will have a podcast
yeah no it's it's solid advice it's like
you say a great way to get in touch with
ideal prospects potential customers
speak to your existing customers learn
from it share content with it and just
like you said i do all the time chop
chop them up create
microbes snackable video content create
blog posts create youtube videos create
articles from it so it's it's a win-win
one thing i wanna
ask mark is
people tuning in may be curious about
this um
when it comes to knowing let's say we
only gonna start out putting our content
on a couple channels to begin with and
steadily grow that
if we're unsure
where our prospects our customers are
actually hanging out because there's a
lot of advice that goes out there like
go on linkedin go on tick tock on
youtube go on this because this is the
best place to be how do we actually know
that this is the right channel for us
and our prospects are here
i think go back to the uh
to talk to your talk to your customers
and prospects and you can you can do
that through surveys you can talk to
them directly
i mean i mean that's that's the insight
that you need to drive marketing uh but
sometimes it comes down to
experimentation so you're you're using
linkedin you're seeing the engagement
that you're getting if if it's not
working then maybe your audience isn't
there but
the more you know about your customers
the better you're going to do and and
you know i don't think you can just say
i'm going to be on tick tock because um
it's a really popular video platform
because there's no correlation like it
doesn't mean that your customers are
there
um it just goes back to the basics and i
think that's why you see a lot of
marketers focusing on knowing your
customers because in a fast moving
multi-tasking
instant gratification world it's really
hard to get people's attention
and you've got to be exactly where they
are
with the with the right content at the
right time and i i i it's just marketing
101 that's the best way that i can
answer it
yeah yeah so on that note we've kind of
alluded to that this is a a bit of a
long-term play and there's a lot of
advantages in terms of building brand
generating sales opportunities referrals
becoming a thought leader and more
how do you how can
we make sure that we stay consistent
with it how can we make sure that we're
not just have you got any tips when it
comes to
kind of rather than just doing i don't
know one piece of content a month or one
podcast every couple months how do we
ensure that we're strict that we keep
the flow of content going so our our
name our brand is consistently in front
of our prospects yeah that's a great
point because a lot of companies get
very enthusiastic about content they
create a bunch of it
they lose their
mojo and then they disappear and that's
the worst thing that can happen so what
you need so you've got your content
ideas you've got your pillars and then
you have to build put together a
strategic plan so
how much content are you going to create
who's going to do it
how's it going to happen
um you know what are the systems and
processes that you need they don't have
to be overly complicated but you need a
plan of attack to make it happen
and i would suggest using an editorial
calendar so you know exactly when you're
going to be creating content
and how it's doing
and then you just have to have
discipline you have to basically commit
yourself to doing it day in day out the
message one of the key messages is here
this is a long this is a marathon not a
sprint
so you got to keep going
day in day out and i guess the biggest
piece of advice i would say is
don't try to do too much too soon so if
you're launching a blog it's okay to do
a blog post a week or a blog post every
two weeks if that's manageable because
the reality is is that
there's lots of other things going on
other than creating content so you know
yourself from trying to do three
podcasts a week
it's
great but it's totally unrealistic
because you're busy doing other things
so yeah you know there's no there's
nothing wrong with starting slow like
i'd rather have a client write one blog
post
every two weeks for a year as opposed to
losing their enthusiasm can you think
about it if you do that that's 26 pieces
of really good content
26 pieces of seo optimized you know
goodness that you can use to
continually nurture your prospects and
customers
i like it yeah work work what's
manageable for you i guess rather than
trying to
go crazy and give yourself an early
heart attack like me
yeah yeah there's no reason to to make
content stressful right it should be it
should be something you want to do it
should be something that you're excited
about
that is going to move your business
forward if it comes becomes an
obligation then then stop doing so much
or find someone who can do it for you
can help you do it for you
yeah cool
so wrap things up
yeah so we've we've kind of give given a
bunch of actual ways to kind of gear
content for your ideal customers how you
can go about it what channels to
consider
in terms of turning this content into
sales revenue
a bit of a tricky one for you is or it
might might be an easy one should we
always include a call to action in our
content so let's say for example we're
putting out a podcast should it say look
get in touch with us here at our website
or our landing page if we're putting out
linkedin posts do we need to say look
there's links in the comments to get in
touch or if it's on our blog post should
we make sure it's bombarded with call to
actions to request a demo
or um or not should we just think um go
in the sense that we're building thought
leadership people understand our name
our brand over time and they'll come to
us when they're ready
i'm a big believer in
call to action in every single piece of
content
the key is is to be subtle is to
recognize that you're offering insight
in value and then just at the end you
can say hey if you like this piece of
content and you want to learn more about
what we do and how we can help you
here's where you go
the
the mistake that a lot of companies make
is that their content is very company
focused as opposed to customer focused
and that the content is really about the
product
not about the user and what their needs
and interests are so number one
customer centric not product centric and
number two is
be subtle be elegant you know don't try
to you know you're just trying to say at
the end of it you know hey by the way if
you enjoy this piece of content people
hopefully will enjoy the content
this is how we can maybe i can help you
in a different way and if you do that
then
people want that right they don't mind
if you do that because it's it's just
it's just really you're just sort of
throwing it out there and if they buying
it then great if not that's okay
yeah so give give people the option
don't ram it down the next exactly
exactly nice one mark well on that we
shall wrap up the show really appreciate
you coming on and enjoyed the
conversation sir thank you thanks for
the invitation
please do tell us more about how people
can learn from you how they can connect
with you and the best way to get in
touch
so you can visit my website at
marketingspark.com
you can subscribe to my newsletter
there's all kinds of ctas in the on the
on the website it's a three times a week
newsletter with bite-sized pieces of
marketing advice and and guidance and of
course you can connect with me on
linkedin
nice one and we'll put all of those
links over at the site
businessgrowth.marketing and with that i
want to thank you once again mark really
appreciate you coming on dude yeah
thanks a lot
no worries and if you enjoy the show as
always hit that subscribe button we
interview business leaders and share
actionable marketing tips to grow your
sales revenue each and every week and
with that we should catch you on the
next one